Dear Mr. Leahy,

Hello.  My son Izzy Mones attended South Eugene High School and graduated in the spring of 2022.  Izzy took a gap year this past and applied to colleges for a second time this past year.  As I look back on the past two years of this process of college application it's been a very difficult experience for us all.  I wanted to let you know how things turned out for him in case it might help inform how you counsel others in the future. 

One thing that is very clear looking back is that Izzy didn't get great advice about where to apply and how to apply to college.  It came from many sources and unfortunately it includes you at South.  But it also include me, my husband and a very expensive counselor we hired this past year to help Izzy apply again. 

So here are Izzy's results:

2022 applications
-------------------
University of Oregon
Oregon State University
Brandeis
Reed College
Colorodo College
Carnegie Mellon
Tufts University
Harvey Mudd
Dartmouth
Cornell
Columbia University
Brown
Stanford University
Princeton
Harvard
Cal Tech


Accepted at: University of Oregon and Oregon State

Unfortunately, Izzy had a really overly optimistic belief that he would get into some of these schools.  As a result, he didn't pick very good backup schools.  Neither University of Oregon or Oregon State have an Aerospace Engineering or Astrophysics programs so attending would mean a more difficult road to his dream of working in aerospace. So he decided to take a gap year and apply again. Also we hired a counselor to help him with the process and review all his writing.  He did a really professional job the second time around.


2023 application
--------------------
University of Arizona
UC San Diego
UC Davis
UC Berkeley
UC LA
Occidental
Pomona
Carnegie Mellon
Carleton
Williams
Harvey Mudd (early decision)
Duke
Tufts University
Swarthmore
Brown
Stanford
Princeton
Cal Tech

Accepted at: University of Arizona and UC Davis. Izzy didn't qualify for financial aid or merit based scholarships at either of these schools either.

If you only apply to 10 schools or so and get a bunch of rejections, there's a chance you might just be unluckly.  But I think it's clear from this data that Izzy probably never had any chance of getting into a majority of these schools. Everyone encouraged Izzy to pick schools to apply to based on his GPA and test scores, but clearly that is no longer the correct way to do it. Izzy would be in the top 25% of the student body based on grades and test scores for pretty much all of these schools except the Ivys where he'd hit the 50% mark on many. The counselor we hired told him the same thing.  Both Izzy and I were so nervous about finding backup schools after last year and the counselor we hired was sure these were the right schools for him to apply to. 

I don't really understand why Izzy was rejected from so many schools and we may never know. I don't know if other students are having the same experience. It's been a difficult experience for Izzy. For a kid who has really struggled to go out into the world and dare to be seen, this was a whole lot of rejection. 

So here's all the good news. The gap year was really good for Izzy. I feel like he's caught up on the years of socializing he missed in high school.  He's made some really good friends and truthfully is more interested in meeting girls right now than going to college and getting good grades. He's thinking about applying for a job where his main task will be greeting people and talking to people.  That's something he couldn't have done just a year ago. He'll be attending UC Davis in the fall where he's in the aerospace engineering program. We think it's a good fit for him. It's in a beautiful place with great rock climbing nearby. I like that it's not on the other side of the country. Izzy is such a great student I know he's going to excel wherever he goes. 

Best regard,
Heidi Dixon






